In the last few videos we've seen how to use the second language to create tables in a database in certain
delight rows and query the title.
It's no time to use what we've learned in an Android app.
We're going to start with what is really the simplest application.
You probably have a safer database.
Now it's not following best practices so don't think that this is the way that you generally access
a database in your applications.
This exercise is just to give you a simple overview of how to use what you've learned in the previous
videos in calling code rather than from the secret Kalat console program.
We'll be looking at much better ways of doing this in future apps.
So I view this more as an introduction to how to use Sakal in your calling card and not just the correct
way to work with databases or what.
So let's get started.
We're going to create a new project an android studio.
We'll call this one sequel lock test.
I'm going to make sure the domain is set to learn programming on cademy as it has been throughout the
course.
You can make sure that checkbox is checked for include Cartland support.
Next you make sure that IPY 17 is selected and the selected the other options which we have click on
next.
Now for this one we're going to be using the floating action button this up so we will select the basic
activity click on next.
And finally empathically on this faunal configure activity screen is correct and fine as it is.
So I'm going to acceptors default and click on finish.
So just keep that project for a short while to load and finish building and indexing.
And then we're going to open up main activity and write some code in the on create method.
They I said earlier in the introduction we're going to create what is probably the simplest application
for writing data to a database that you incurred.
It's very very simple.
It's just a proof of concept.
Before we go into more detail into things in a more structured way I could say that things are lighting
here now we're just about done.
What we'll do is we'll go to and followed up with an amendment to component finish in re-index or index
for the first time.
It's finished now I'm going to kick my own activity from now Academy learn programming package.
I mean you're good to go.
Now the Android framework includes a sequel light database class called siecle or database and we're
going to be using that to create an Access database that you don't need to know the full ins and outs
of how this particular class works.
Think about like the sequel a command line program the one that we're used to previously in the section
to allow us to execute Sekou statements to see our database class works in a similar fashion.
But instead of talking C-clamp prompt we pass strings containing Siku statements and the sequel like
database object executes them for us.
So to get this to work we need to start by creating a database object and we go ahead and do that above
the fab data set and click this no I'm going to talk Val device is equal to the space context thought
is going to be open or create database image which is very helpful when you talk to his methods and
he saw that the students are taught the opening parentheses after the IPN or create database.
It showed the documents that we have to provide.
Yep although I tend to use the term method when referring to a function belonging to one of the Android
Java classes and function when talking about Cartland code.
Now they are the same thing and if you want to call them functions instead that's fine.
Just be aware that what the different terms when you're talking to Java programmers that case has several
ways to use this method but we stick with the first one for now.
And you could say it's asking for a string and it is something called a curse factory.
So to find out what these arguments should be we can check the documentation.
If I typed in the document so I could click anywhere on the owner create database method and use that
control Q or control Jide depending what you're on a PC or Mac and bring up the documentation that a
moment like this doesn't work.
Android studio is unable to work out which particular version of the open will create database documentation
we want to say and that prevents it from linking to the documentation correctly.
And of course this is a catch 22 because if we knew what the documents were they probably wouldn't need
to call up the documentation in the first place.
They did used to be possible to put the cursor inside the opening and closing parentheses before talking
control giant hygienists control.
You want to say but that's no longer working.
So if you find yourself in that position when trying to get the documentation for engine it's true just
enter any suitable values for each parameter and you know I should be you can change them so you can
save a top pop version of the method once a string and into something called a sequel or database that
casts a factory.
So I kind of postering and call it name the number one in there for the end and I was going to pass
now on being the curse of factory so now get back to the methods that we have to out.
But like I said they're not going to control them back and again it's control.
You want to say and now the documentation is coming up for us.
So let's actually a lot more helpful.
We can see now that this method opens the sequel or database reading further you can say it creates
the database for if it doesn't already exist now now when you use this way to do the documentation control
you will control.
You'll often find there's a blue up woods pointing arrow available and you can see them is up here as
well.
Now if it's great app and there's no further documentation available but here it's in blue and you can
see that the link said that we could view the documentation or view the external documentation so I
can click it and it will open up the relevant documentation on my Mac's default browser.
Let's say it has it going right to the method we still need to look up the method.
So I'm just going to do a find for the method I'm looking at that's open or create database.
Well just look for the set come on.
And the one that we want to have a look at is the overloaded one that had a name lowered and kiss the
factory.
So I'm going to click on that.
So I'm presuming that was a bug and that eventually this will be fixed and it will go straight to the
method but you can see that I needed to add another step to get to the method that I wanted to save
or ABRAZO.
But this part is a lot more helpful in the old times we had to leave through the printed manuals but
do all that documentation is available with a couple of case tracks and you can do this for just about
anything you want to know more about just click the name of the class or object and user control.
If you're going to back or control Q On a PC and you can find out more information on whatever it is
we're going to continue on in the web browser for the documentation things we know now we're going to
use this mode and it's called Prabhat.
This option here for the default operation but we can check what the other options are by clicking on
the links and scrolling down this alphabetical list.
You can see it in crop mode enable waterhead logging.
So let's click on that and then prepare to be disappointed.
So it's not really very helpful if you were hoping for an explanation of what to road ahead logging
means.
This doesn't really explain a lot.
When that happens you just look for the links that more provide more information.
There's not much point clicking on the first two links here because that the ones going back to the
open or create database methods have just come from there.
So we'll end up going round in circles.
Have a look at this third one here.
And labeled Broadhead logging method that's far more intuitive you could say we got lots more information
about that.
Now I went through it all basically at last.
It allows concurrent access to the database.
Now in Android there's not often any need to allow your database to be accessed on multiple threads.
There's only one app in the foreground and any one pointing to one.
And if you start writing things like services and you service needs to write to the database then you
probably have to enable readahead logging by the time we get to that stage to know that you need it.
So we're going to use both private from the mind and set defect factory argument to now.
You can then use your own subclass of Caressa and that arguments how to do that.
So generally that occurs a class that Android provides has fallen to most purposes.
They're going to get it back and have a look there.
This factory optional factor class had his code to instantiate a cursor when the queries code.
As I mentioned generally the cursor class that Android provides is for most purposes right.
Let's get back to our code.
So the argument will be our database phone home and the mode we should be setting that to context top
mode on the school provid.
Now before I utilize valleys to hover over the area that the mode is providing the mode to argument
that the error message mentions a few other options so you can say that you've got mode readable when
mode well readable.
Well I would deprecated in API 17 and we really shouldn't be using them.
Making a database world readable is a pretty bad idea from a security point of view and we'll write
it was obviously much worse.
Now that been marked as deprecated in the documentation we just looked at but did allow the database
to be shared with other apps.
So there's to present in the Android source code.
In other words back could be removed in a future version.
You know there are other ways of sharing data that we going to be talking about.
I was a little bit lighter things like a content provider broadcast receiver and a service.
So it's now up like this with the router settings are we're going to go with sequel lots dash test dash
1.
What do you make instead of hard cutting a one we're going to go with most home school private.
We're going to leave now as a third option for now.
So this first bit of card will open the database for us if it finds it if there isn't already a database
Cosequin lot test test test one don't be that it will automatically create one for us and we'll have
a look once we're ready to run the card and see the database fall on the emulator.
So no let's finish the video here.
And then the next one you start writing some sequel cards so we start creating some strings with a secret
code to get to the stage of executing the app to see what happens.
So we'll see you in the next video.